=pod

=head1 NAME

B<yaf> B<dhcp> B<fingerprinting>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

There are several ways to perform Operating System Identification. Many tools, 
based on the well-known p0f tool, look at characteristics in the 
TCP/IP packet headers. DHCP fingerprinting is a relatively new way of performing OS
identification. By looking at the order of the DHCP options in the DHCP 
requests from the Operating System's DHCP client, it may be possible to 
identify the client's OS version.  The B<yaf> DHCP fingerprinting plugin does
exactly that.  For flows that B<yaf> has labeled as DHCP, B<yaf> will look at
the DHCP options if available in the payload captured for that flow.  
B<yaf> specifically looks
at Option 55.  Option 55 requests a list of parameters.  The order in which 
they are requested can usually identify the OS of the requesting IP address.

B<yaf> also exports the DHCP Vendor Class Identifier, if available.  The
Vendor Class ID is included in DHCP Option 60 and often provides specific
information about the hardware of the sender.  The Vendor ID can often
assist in identifying an OS.  B<yaf> does not match an OS based on the vendor
ID, it simply exports the information if it is available.

Fingerbank (www.fingerbank.org) is the official website for DHCP fingerprints. 
B<yaf> includes and uses the dhcp_fingerprints.conf file found on this website.
B<yaf> will be able to parse any INI config file that follows the format of the
dhcp_fingerprints.conf file. 

This feature is presently experimental and the DHCP data is not collected by the SiLK tools.
Use an IPFIX mediator, such as the one listed on the CERT NetSA Tools Wiki, to collect
and view the DHCP fields exported by B<yaf>.  B<yaf> must be configured for
application labeling and plugin support to use this plugin.

=head1 DHCP Template Format

B<yaf>'s output consists of an IPFIX message stream.  B<yaf> uses a variety of
templates for IPFIX data records.  B<yaf> uses a subTemplateMultiList
to export optional information elements, such as Deep Packet Inspection and
p0f fields, related to the flow.  Below is the format of the DHCP
fingerprinting record that will be exported if B<yaf> found a match from
the DHCP options, or a vendor class ID was present in the packet.

=over 2

=item B<dhcpFingerPrint> CERT (PEN 6871) IE 202, variable length

The DHCP fingerprint as matched from the dhcp_fingerprint.conf file.
This will be the description of the OS as found in the conf file.

=item B<dhcpVendorCode> CERT (PEN 6871) IE 202, variable length

The DHCP vendor class ID found in Option 60 of the DHCP packet.  
This field may help further identify the operating system of the
sender.

=item B<reverseDhcpFingerPrint> CERT (PEN 6871) IE 16898, variable length

The DHCP fingerprint for the reverse flow.  This will only be exported
if the reversePacketTotalCount field is greater than 0.

=item B<reverseDhcpVendorCode> CERT (PEN 6871) IE 16899, variable length

The DHCP vendor class ID for the reverse flow.  This will only be 
exported if the reversePacketTotalCount field is greater than 0.

=back

=head1 Examples

Running YAF with DHCP fingerprinting:

C<yaf --in eth0 --out /data/yaf/yaf --rotate 120 --plugin-name=/usr/local/lib/yaf/dhcp_fp_plugin.la --applabel --max-payload=500 --live pcap>

Running YAF with DPI and DHCP fingerprinting:

C<yaf --in eth0 --out localhost --ipfix tcp --ipfix-port=18000 --plugin-name=/usr/local/lib/yaf/dpacketplugin.la,/usr/local/lib/yaf/dhcp_fp_plugin.la --applabel --max-payload=1024 --live pcap>

=head1 AUTHORS

CERT Network Situational Awareness Group Engineering Team,
http://www.cert.org/netsa

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<yaf(1)>, L<yafscii(1)>, L<yafdpi(1)>, L<applabel(1)>

=cut
