=pod

=head1 NAME

B<getFlowKeyHash> - YAF Flow Key Calculator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    getFlowKeyHash [--sip4 IPV4_ADDRESS] [--dip4 IPV4_ADDRESS]
                   [--sip6 IPV6_ADDRESS] [--dip6 IPV6_ADDRESS]
                   [--sport SOURCE_PORT] [--dport DESTINATION_PORT]
                   [--protocol PROTOCOL] [--vlan VLAN_ID]
                   [--date FLOW_START_DATE] [--time FLOW_START_TIME]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<getFlowKeyHash> takes information about a flow and calculates the 
B<yaf> flow key hash.  Together, the flow key hash and the start time of the
flow will create a unique identifier for a flow.  The flow key hash and
start time is used to identify flows with B<yaf>'s pcap export options.  
If given the start time, B<getFlowKeyHash> will print the
file path of the flow's pcap (helpful if B<yaf> was run with the 
--pcap-per-flow option) and the milliseconds since epoch time (helpful
for use with B<yaf>'s pcap-meta-file).

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are required for B<getFlowKeyHash> to calculate the 
flow key.

=over 4

=item B<--sip4> I<IPV4_ADDRESS>

I<IPV4_ADDRESS> should be the source address of the flow in the form
127.0.0.1.  Either --sip4 or --sip6 must be present.

=item B<--dip4> I<IPV4_ADDRESS>

I<IPV4_ADDRESS> should be the destination address of a flow in the form
127.0.0.1.  Either --dip4 or --dip6 must be present.

=item B<--sip6> I<IPV6_ADDRESS>

I<IPV6_ADDRESS> should be the source IPv6 address of a flow in the form
2001:48af::1:1.  Either --sip6 or --sip4 must be present.

=item B<--dip6> I<IPV6_ADDRESS>

I<IPV6_ADDRESS> should be the destination IPv6 address of a flow in the
form 2001:48af::1:1. Either --dip6 or --dip4 must be present.
 
=item B<--sport> I<SOURCE_PORT>

I<SOURCE_PORT> should be the source port of the flow.  This number should
be between 0 and 66535.  This is a required argument.

=item B<--dport> I<DESTINATION_PORT>

I<DESTINATION_PORT> should be the destination port of the flow.  This number
should be between 0 and 65535.  This is a required argument.

=item B<--protocol> I<PROTOCOL>

I<PROTOCOL> is the protocol of the flow.  For TCP, I<PROTOCOL> is 6.  For UDP,
I<PROTOCOL> is 17.  This is a required argument.

=item B<--vlan> I<VLAN>

I<VLAN> is the vlan ID of the flow, if available.  The default value is 0.

=back

=head1 Optional Arguments

The following options are optional and are only necessary to calculate
the file path of the pcap for the flow.  B<yaf> uses the milliseconds of
the flow's start time as the file directory.  The date and time is also
used in pcap file's name.  If the date and time are given, B<getFlowKeyHash>
will also calculate the milliseconds since epoch, which is useful when using
B<yaf>'s pcap-meta-files and the B<yafMeta2Pcap> tool.

=over 4

=item B<--date> I<FLOW_START_DATE>

Specify the date in YYYY-MM-DD format; time is in UTC.

=item B<--time> I<FLOW_START_TIME>

Specify the time in HH:MM:SS[.sss] format.

=back

=head1 Examples

In the following examples, the dollar sign ("$") represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
("\") is used to indicate a wrapped line.

=over 1

$ getFlowKeyHash --sip4 10.10.25.11 --dip4 10.10.26.12 --sport 1586 \
               --dport 80 --protocol 6 --vlan 3

KEY HASH: 100819735

FILE PATH: sss/100819735-YYYYMMDDHHMMSS_0

$ getFlowKeyHash --sip4 10.10.25.11 --dip4 10.10.26.12 --sport 1586 \
               --dport 80 --protocol 6 --vlan 3  --date 2011-03-21 \
               --time 16:15:54.256

KEYHASH: 100819735

FILE PATH: 256/100819735-2011321161554_0.pcap

MS since EPOCH: 1300724154

=back

=head1 Known Issues

Bug reports may be sent directly to the Network Situational Awareness team at 
E<lt>netsa-help@cert.orgE<gt>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Emily Sarneso and the CERT Network Situational Awareness Group Engineering Team, 
E<lt>http://www.cert.org/netsaE<gt>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

yaf(1)

=cut
