=pod

=head1 NAME

B<yafMeta2Pcap> - YAF Pcap Meta File Parser and Pcap Creator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    yafMeta2Pcap [--pcap-meta-file FILE_PATH]
                 [--pcap PCAP_FILE_NAME]
                 [--out OUTPUT_SPECIFIER]
                 [--hash FLOW_KEY_HASH]
                 [--time FLOW_START_MILLISECONDS]
                 [--full-path]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<yaf> has several pcap export options available. B<yaf> will create a
CSV file that contains information to assemble a pcap file for any
particular flow. B<yafMeta2Pcap> parses the CSV file created by B<yaf>
and creates a pcap file for the given flow.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are required for B<yafMeta2Pcap> to create the
pcap file.

=over 4

=item B<--pcap-meta-file> I<FILE_PATH>

The path to the pcap-meta-file as created by B<yaf>.  This option may be 
listed multiple times if multiple pcap-meta-files were created.  They should
be listed in the order they were created.  The argument is not a list, each
file should be given to a separate B<--pcap-meta-file>.

=item B<--pcap> I<PCAP_FILE_NAME>

The path to the pcap file that was given to B<yaf> to create the
pcap-meta-file.  Only use if full path is not available in pcap
metafile.  This option can be listed multiple times if a flow can be found 
over multiple pcaps.  They should be listed in the order they were created.
B<yafMeta2Pcap> will open subsequent pcaps when the third column in the pcap-
meta-file changes.  For example, if the third column is 0, B<yafMeta2Pcap>
will open the first pcap given to B<--pcap>. The argument is not a list, each
file should be given to a separate B<--pcap>.

=item B<--out> I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER>

The full path of the pcap file that will be created containing just
the packets from the given flow.

=item B<--hash> I<FLOW_KEY_HASH>

The flow key hash of the flow as created by B<getFlowKeyHash>.  Use
B<getFlowKeyHash> with the flow's 5-tuple and vlan to calculate
the flow key hash.

=item B<--time> I<FLOW_START_MILLISECONDS>

The milliseconds since epoch time of the start time of the flow.
B<getFlowKeyHash> can calculate the milliseconds since epoch given
the date and time.

=item B<--full-path>

If present, B<yafMeta2Pcap> will open each file as given in the pcap
metafile.  The pcap metafile given to I<--pcap-meta-file> must contain
the full path to the pcap files.  Use if B<yaf> created the pcap files.

=back

=head1 Examples

In the following examples, the dollar sign ("$") represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
("\") is used to indicate a wrapped line.

=over 1

The following example shows how to run B<yaf>, B<getFlowKeyHash>, and
B<yafMeta2Pcap> to create a pcap for a given flow.

$ yaf --in /data/some_large_file.pcap --out /data/ipfix.yaf \
     --pcap-meta-file /tmp/pcap-info.txt

$ getFlowKeyHash --sip4 10.10.25.11 --dip4 10.10.26.12 --sport 1586 \
               --dport 80 --protocol 6 --vlan 3  --date 2011-03-21 \
               --time 16:15:54.256

KEYHASH: 100819735

FILE PATH: 256/100819735-2011321161554_0.pcap

MS since EPOCH: 1300724154

$ yafMeta2Pcap --pcap-meta-file /tmp/pcap-info.txt \
    --pcap /data/some_large_file.pcap \
    --out /data/my-new-pcap.pcap --hash 100819735 --time 1300724154

The following example shows how to run B<yaf> creating rolling pcap
files and use B<yafMeta2Pcap> to create a pcap for a specific flow.

$ yaf --in eth0 --out localhost --ipfix tcp --ipfix-port 18000 \
     --pcap-meta-file /tmp/pcap-info.txt --pcap /data/pcap \
     --live pcap

$ getFlowKeyHash --sip4 10.10.25.11 --dip4 10.10.26.12 --sport 1586 \
               --dport 80 --protocol 6 --vlan 3  --date 2011-03-21 \
               --time 16:15:54.256

KEYHASH: 100819735

FILE PATH: 256/100819735-2011321161554_0.pcap

MS since EPOCH: 1300724154

$ yafMeta2Pcap --pcap-meta-file /tmp/pcap-info.txt --full-path\
    --out /data/my-new-pcap.pcap --hash 100819735 --time 1300724154

=back

=head1 Known Issues

Bug reports may be sent directly to the Network Situational Awareness team at
E<lt>netsa-help@cert.orgE<gt>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Emily Sarneso and the CERT Network Situational Awareness Group Engineering Team,
E<lt>http://www.cert.org/netsaE<gt>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

yaf(1), getFlowKeyHash(1)

=cut
